1515	Agent Total Cumulative Dose	Numeric value to represent the total cumulative dose administered to a patient.	information related to the cumulative total quantity of an agent.
2006107	WBC	the absolute peripheral white blood cell count (units unspecified).	information related to the result of a medical procedure that involves testing a sample of blood for white blood cells, a blood cell that does not contain hemoglobin and includes monocytes, basophils, lymphocytes, neutrophils, eosinophils, macrophages, and mast cells.
2006657	Age at diagnosis?	Age at which a condition or disease was first diagnosed.	the diagnosis for the patient's cancer.
2180444	Hematocrit	the value in percentage of the medical procedure that involves testing a sample of blood for hematocrit, the percentage of a whole blood specimen that is composed of red blood cells (erythrocytes).	information related to the results of the medical procedure that involves testing a sample of blood for hematocrit, the percentage of a whole blood specimen that is composed of red blood cells (erythrocytes).
2190	Hemoglobin	the value (g/dL) for a the medical procedure that involves testing a sample of blood for hemoglobun, red respiratory protein of erythrocytes, to help determine a diagnosis, plan treatment, check to see if treatment is working, or monitor the disease over time.	information related to the result of the medical procedure that involves testing a sample of blood for hemoglobin, red respiratory protein of erythrocytes, to help determine a diagnosis, plan treatment, check to see if treatment is working, or monitor the disease over time.
2192199	Race	The text for reporting information about race based on the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) categories.	The category describing the race of the individual.
2192217	Ethnicity	The text for reporting information about ethnicity based on the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) categories.	Classification based on social groupings that are characterized by a distinctive social and cultural tradition maintained from generation to generation, a common history and origin and a sense of identification with the group; members of the group have distinctive features in their way of life, shared experiences and often a common genetic heritage; these features may be reflected in their experience of health and disease.
2192217	Ethnicity	The text for reporting information about ethnicity based on the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) categories.	Describing the ethnicity of a person.
2200604	Gender of a Person	Text designations that identify gender. Gender is described as the assemblage of properties that distinguish people on the basis of their societal roles. [Explanatory Comment 1: Identification of gender is based upon self-report and may come from a form, questionnaire, interview, etc.]	A person's gender with is based on the assemblage of properties that distinguish people on the basis of their societal roles.
2200604	Gender of Person	The text that describes the assemblage of properties that distinguish people on the basis of their societal roles.	A person's gender with is based on the assemblage of properties that distinguish people on the basis of their societal roles.
2459014	Were steroids given	the indicator for steroid therapy administered.	the administration of steroids as therapy to the patient.
2625735	Did the patient receive ATRA prior to registration	the yes/no indicator whether all-trans retinoic acid, a naturally-occurring acid of retinol, was administered prior to registration or enrollement in a controlled study performed in human subjects and intended to discover, evaluate, and/or verify safety, effectiveness, clinical and pharmacological effects, and adverse reactions.	information related to the administration of all-trans retinoic acid, a naturally-occurring acid of retinol, prior to registration or enrollement in a controlled study performed in human subjects and intended to discover, evaluate, and/or verify safety, effectiveness, clinical and pharmacological effects, and adverse reactions.
2626417	Cytogenetics Test	the yes/no indicator related to techniques for analysis of chromosomal and subchromosomal properties and structures, such as those to diagnose, classify, screen for, or manage genetic diseases and abnormalities being performed.	information related to techniques for analysis of chromosomal and subchromosomal properties and structures, such as those to diagnose, classify, screen for, or manage genetic diseases and abnormalities being performed.
2669786	Marrow neutrophils	the percentage value related to a bone marrow neutrophil (granular leukocytes having a nucleus with three to five lobes connected by slender threads of chromatin) hematology laboratory procedure.	information relating to the result of the medical procedure that involves testing a sample of bone marrow for neutrophils, granular leukocytes having a nucleus with three to five lobes connected by slender threads of chromatin.
2669787	Marrow metamyelocytes	the percentage value related to bone marrow metamyelocyte (a cell derived from a promyelocyte that differentiates into a neutrophil) hematology laboratory procedure.	information relating to the result of the medical procedure that involves testing a sample of bone marrow for metamyelocytes, a cell derived from a promyelocyte that differentiates into a neutrophil.
2669788	Marrow myelocytes	the percentage value related to a bone marrow myelocyte (a cell derived from a promyelocyte that differentiates into a metamyelocyte) hematology laboratory procedure.	information relating to the result of the medical procedure that involves testing a sample of bone marrow for myelocytes, a cell derived from a promyelocyte that differentiates into a metamyelocyte.
2669789	Marrow prolymphocytes	the percentage value related to a bone marrow promyelocyte (a medium-sized round lymphocyte of B or T-cell lineage that is an intermediate cell between the lymphoblast and the small, mature lymphocyte) hematology laboratory procedure.	information relating to the result of the medical procedure that involves testing a sample of bone marrow for promyelocytes, a medium-sized round lymphocyte of B or T-cell lineage that is an intermediate cell between the lymphoblast and the small, mature lymphocyte.
2673794	None	Identifier to uniquely specify a patient on a protocol/clinical trial._Generic value domain for a java datatype that is a class that represents character strings.	Identifier to uniquely specify a patient on a protocol/clinical trial.
2724416	Number of days hydroxyurea received	the quantity of days given an anticancer drug that belongs to the family of drugs called antimetabolites.	information related to being given an anticancer drug that belongs to the family of drugs called antimetabolites.
2760451	What is the chromosome abnormality diagnosis type?	A description of the cytogenetic abnormality.	An irregularity in the number or structure of chromosomes, usually in the form of a gain (duplication), loss (deletion), exchange (translocation), or alteration in sequence (inversion) of genetic material._The investigation, analysis and recognition of the presence and nature of disease, condition, or injury from expressed signs and symptoms; also, the scientific determination of any kind; the concise results of such an investigation.
2760451	What is the chromosome abnormality diagnosis type?	A description of the type or irregularities in the number or structure of chromosomes that was found when testing a specimen for chromosomal abnormalities.	An irregularity in the number or structure of chromosomes, usually in the form of a gain (duplication), loss (deletion), exchange (translocation), or alteration in sequence (inversion) of genetic material._The investigation, analysis and recognition of the presence and nature of disease, condition, or injury from expressed signs and symptoms; also, the scientific determination of any kind; the concise results of such an investigation.
2896960	Year of initial pathologic diagnosis	Numeric value to represent the year of an individual's initial pathologic diagnosis of cancer.	information related to first or initial diagnosis of cancer.
2957553	Specify abnormality:	Techniques for analysis of chromosomal and subchromosomal properties and structures, such as those to diagnose, classify, screen for, or manage genetic diseases and abnormalities._A condition that differs from the usual physical or mental state._Something distinguishable as an identifiable class based on common qualities._Be specific about something; define clearly._Text; the words of something written.	Techniques for analysis of chromosomal and subchromosomal properties and structures, such as those to diagnose, classify, screen for, or manage genetic diseases and abnormalities._A condition that differs from the usual physical or mental state._Something distinguishable as an identifiable class based on common qualities.
2975716	Day of form completion	Numeric value to represent the day of Case Report Form (CRF) completion at the tissue source site.	the completion of data collection for the CRF._An anatomical structure consisting of similarly specialized cells and intercellular matrix, aggregated according to genetically determined spatial relationships, performing a specific function._Source; where something is available._Organizational unit like a laboratory, institute or consortium.
2975718	Month of form completion	Numeric value to represent the month of Case Report Form (CRF) completion at the tissue source site.	the completion of data collection for the CRF._An anatomical structure consisting of similarly specialized cells and intercellular matrix, aggregated according to genetically determined spatial relationships, performing a specific function._Source; where something is available._Organizational unit like a laboratory, institute or consortium.
2975720	Year of form completion	Numeric value to represent the year of Case Report Form (CRF) completion at the tissue source site.	the completion of data collection for the CRF._An anatomical structure consisting of similarly specialized cells and intercellular matrix, aggregated according to genetically determined spatial relationships, performing a specific function._Source; where something is available._Organizational unit like a laboratory, institute or consortium.
3008233	Days to Birth	Time interval from a person's date of birth to the date of initial pathologic diagnosis, represented as a calculated number of days.	A human being._The calendar date on which a person was born._No Value Exists_The investigation, analysis and recognition of the presence and nature of disease, condition, or injury from expressed signs and symptoms; also, the scientific determination of any kind; the concise results of such an investigation._the continuum of experience in which events pass from the future through the present to the past._The period of time during which something continues.
3008273	Days to Last Followup	Time interval from the date of last followup to the date of initial pathologic diagnosis, represented as a calculated number of days.	Coming after all others in time or space or degree or being the only one remaining._A channel for communication between groups._No Value Exists_The process of identifying a disease by the signs and symptoms._the continuum of experience in which events pass from the future through the present to the past._The period of time during which something continues.
3088785	Total Dose Units	Code to represent the unit of measure (UOM) associated with a total dose for treatment.	A description of applying, dispensing or tendering a medical product or other agent to a clinical study subject._Pertaining to an entirety or whole, also constituting the full quantity or extent; complete; derived by addition.:A quantity of an agent (such as substance or energy) administered, taken, or absorbed at one time.:A named quantity in terms of which other quantities are measured or specified, used as a standard measurement of like kinds.:A symbol or combination of symbols which are given certain arbitrary meanings within a systematized collection of concepts used for data representation.
3120971	History of Hematologic Disorder	Text indicator to signify whether a person/patient has a history of a hematologic disorder.	information related to prior hematologic disorder being diagnosed.
3121309	Previous Exposure to Non-medical, Potentially Leukemogenic Agent	Text description of a potentially leukemogenic nonmedical agent to which a person has been exposed.	Person; a human being._The aggregate of past events; the continuum of events occurring in succession leading from the past to the present; a record or narrative description of past events._Leading to or causing leukemia._An active power or cause (as principle, substance, physical or biological factor, etc.) that produces a specific effect. (NCI)_Contact with infectious agents (bacteria or viruses) in a manner that promotes transmission and increases the likelihood of disease. (CDC)
3121483	Immunophenotype & Cytochemistry	Alphanumeric term to describe the result of immunophenotypic cytochemistry testing for a specific immune response .	Information related to characterization of a set of cells based on structural and functional differences in the proteins or other substances expressed on the surface of the cell, that stimulate the immune system and elicit an immune response.
3121502	Cytogenetic Risk Group (CALGB criteria)	Text term to classify the risk of developing acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) based on cytogenetic testing.	A clonal expansion of myeloid blasts in the bone marrow, blood or other tissues.  The classification of acute myeloid leukemias (AMLs) encompasses four major categories: 1) AML with recurrent genetic abnormalities 2) AML with multilineage dysplasia 3) Therapy-related AML 4) AML not otherwise categorized.  The required bone marrow or peripheral blood blast percentage for the diagnosis of AML has been recently reduced from 30% (French-American-British [FAB] classification) to 20% (WHO classification).  (WHO, 2001)_The branch of biology that studies the cellular aspects of heredity, especially the chromosomes. Includes the study of disease states caused by numerical and structural chromosome abnormalities._Risk is the potential future harm that may arise from some present action. It is often combined or confused with the probability of an event which is seen as undesirable. (from WIkipedia)
3121563	Were FISH abnormalities detected?	Text indicator to signify whether any FISH testing abnormalities were detected.	A physical mapping approach that uses fluorescent tags to detect hybridization of probes within metaphase chromosomes or less condensed somatic interphase chromatin. This technique can be used for identification of chromosomal abnormalities and for gene mapping._Deviating from the norm._Outcome; a phenomenon that follows and is caused by some previous phenomenon.
3121565	Were molecular studies done?	Text indicator to signify whether any molecular testing was performed for an individual.	information related to performing a techniques for studying or analyzing the genetic composition and mechanisms of living organisms at the molecular level. May refer to the understanding and manipulation of genes (DNA).
3121575	Type of analysis	Classification of a molecular analysis method used for an analysis.	Any abnormal condition of the body or mind that causes discomfort, dysfunction, or distress to the person affected or those in contact with the person. The term is often used broadly to include injuries, disabilities, syndromes, symptoms, deviant behaviors, and atypical variations of structure and function._The activity of perceiving, discerning, discovering or identifying._Techniques for studying or analyzing the genetic composition and mechanisms of living organisms at the molecular level. May refer to the understanding and manipulation of genes (DNA)._A means, manner of procedure, or systematic course of actions that have to be performed in order to accomplish a particular goal.
3121575	Type of analysis	Text descriptor of a molecular analysis method used for an individual.	Any abnormal condition of the body or mind that causes discomfort, dysfunction, or distress to the person affected or those in contact with the person. The term is often used broadly to include injuries, disabilities, syndromes, symptoms, deviant behaviors, and atypical variations of structure and function._The activity of perceiving, discerning, discovering or identifying._Techniques for studying or analyzing the genetic composition and mechanisms of living organisms at the molecular level. May refer to the understanding and manipulation of genes (DNA)._A means, manner of procedure, or systematic course of actions that have to be performed in order to accomplish a particular goal.
3121579	Were molecular abnormalities detected?	Text indicator to signify whether any molecular analysis abnormalities were detected.	Techniques for studying or analyzing the genetic composition and mechanisms of living organisms at the molecular level. May refer to the understanding and manipulation of genes (DNA)._Deviating from the norm._Outcome; a phenomenon that follows and is caused by some previous phenomenon._
3121628	Molecular Abnormality Studies	Term to describe an abnormal result of molecular analysis.	Techniques for studying or analyzing the genetic composition and mechanisms of living organisms at the molecular level. May refer to the understanding and manipulation of genes (DNA)._Deviating from the norm._Outcome; a phenomenon that follows and is caused by some previous phenomenon._
3121638	Was patient exposed to hydroxyurea prior to procurement?	Text indicator to signify whether hydroxyurea was administered to a patient before enrollment to a study.	A monohydroxyl-substituted urea (hydroxycarbamate) antimetabolite. Hydroxyurea selectively inhibits ribonucleoside diphosphate reductase, an enzyme required to convert ribonucleoside diphosphates into deoxyribonucleoside diphosphates, thereby preventing cells from leaving the G1/S phase of the cell cycle.  This agent also exhibits radiosensitizing activity by maintaining cells in the radiation-sensitive G1 phase and interfering with DNA repair. (NCI04)_The act of administration._Earlier in time or order. (NCI)_The act of listing or recording officially; officially qualified or enrolled._Research conducted with human subjects or on material of human origin in which an investigator directly interacts with human subjects; includes development of new technologies, study of mechanisms of human diseases, therapy, clinical trials, epidemiologic, behavior, and health services research.
3124352	FAB Category	Alphanumeric code to represent the French American British (FAB) morphologic classification of leukemia.	related to the grouping of hematologic malignancy (e.g., leukemia) based on criteria for morphologic and cytochemical appearance describe by the French-American-British international system._The science of the form and structure of organisms (plants, animals, and other forms of life), or of their parts, and the study or science of the same.  In pathology, the specific appearance of cells and tissues (normal and abnormal) under the light or electron microscope._A classification system for acute myeloid leukemias, acute lymphoblastic leukemias, and myelodysplastic syndromes.  It is based on the morphologic and cytochemical evaluation of bone marrow and peripheral blood smears.
3131180	Bands	Number to represent the percentage value related to a bone marrow stab cell (granulocyte precursor) hematology laboratory procedure.	information relating to the result of the medical procedure that involves testing a sample of bone marrow for neutrophils, granular leukocytes having a nucleus with three to five lobes connected by slender threads of chromatin._A late precursor of a granulocyte in which the nucleus is in the form of a curved or coiled band, not having acquired the typical multilobar shape of the mature polymorphonuclear neutrophil.
3131695	Promonocytes	Number to represent the percentage value related to a bone marrow promonocyte hematology laboratory procedure.	information relating to the result of the medical procedure that involves testing a sample of bone marrow for neutrophils, granular leukocytes having a nucleus with three to five lobes connected by slender threads of chromatin._A measurement of the promonocytes in a biological specimen.
3131740	Number of days from initial diagnosis to date last known alive	Time interval from the last day on which a person is known to be alive to the date of initial pathologic diagnosis, represented as a calculated number of days.	Coming after all others in time or space or degree or being the only one remaining._The organic phenomenon that distinguishes living organisms from nonliving ones; showing characteristics of life_The point or place at which something terminates in time, space, or extent._The investigation, analysis and recognition of the presence and nature of disease, condition, or injury from expressed signs and symptoms; also, the scientific determination of any kind; the concise results of such an investigation._the continuum of experience in which events pass from the future through the present to the past._The period of time during which something continues._._No Value Exists_The investigation, analysis and recognition of the presence and nature of disease, condition, or injury from expressed signs and symptoms; also, the scientific determination of any kind; the concise results of such an investigation.
3144381	Abnormal Lymphocytes	Numeric value to represent the percentage of infiltration by abnormal lymphocytes in a tissue sample or specimen.	information related to the result of a medical procedure that involves testing a sample of blood from the body for an atypical or abnormal lymphocyte, a type of white blood cell that fights infection and diseases._Deviating in any way from the state, position, structure, condition, behavior, or rule which is considered a norm._White blood cells formed in the body's lymphoid tissue. The nucleus is round or ovoid with coarse, irregularly clumped chromatin while the cytoplasm is typically pale blue with azurophilic (if any) granules. Most lymphocytes can be classified as either T or B (with subpopulations of each); those with characteristics of neither major class are called null cells.
3151691	For FISH Tested, Indicate Percent	Numeric value to describe the percentage cytogenetic abnormalities detected by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH).	a genetic abnormality at the chromosomal level.
3165475	Number of Days from Initial Diagnosis to Date of Death	Time interval from a person's date of death to the date of initial pathologic diagnosis, represented as a calculated number of days.	The cessation of life._The act of removing a part from the whole._The investigation, analysis and recognition of the presence and nature of disease, condition, or injury from expressed signs and symptoms; also, the scientific determination of any kind; the concise results of such an investigation._the continuum of experience in which events pass from the future through the present to the past._The period of time during which something continues.
3288361	Consent Status	Text term to describe the status of the patient consent.	A person who receives medical attention, care, or treatment, or who is registered with medical professional or institution with the purpose to receive medical care when necessary._Permission to do something._A condition or state at a particular time.
3382736	Has the patient had any prior cancer diagnosed?	Text term to describe the patient's history of prior cancer diagnosis and the spatial location of any previous cancer occurrence.	information related to a prior cancer diagnosis.
3382737	History of Neoadjuvant Treatment for Tumor Submitted	Text term to describe the patient's history of neoadjuvant treatment and the kind of treament given prior to resection of the tumor.	information related to the prior administration of neoadjuvant therapy, treatment designed to be used as a first step toward shrinking the cancer and in evaluating response to drugs and other agents.
3427536	Site of Disease	Text term that describes the anatomic site of the tumor or disease.	A benign or malignant tissue growth resulting from uncontrolled cell proliferation.  Benign neoplastic cells resemble normal cells without exhibiting significant cytologic atypia, while malignant cells exhibit overt signs such as dysplastic features, atypical mitotic figures, necrosis, nuclear pleomorphism, and anaplasia.  Representative examples of benign neoplasms include papillomas, cystadenomas, and lipomas; malignant neoplasms include carcinomas, sarcomas, lymphomas, and leukemias._Any abnormal condition of the body or mind that causes discomfort, dysfunction, or distress to the person affected or those in contact with the person. The term is often used broadly to include injuries, disabilities, syndromes, symptoms, deviant behaviors, and atypical variations of structure and function._Named locations of or within the body.
58262	Marrow Blasts (%)	the percentage of blast cells, immature (undifferentiated) cells occurring before the appearance of the definitive characteristics exhibited by fully differentiated cells, of the  total nucleated marrow cells, the soft, sponge-like tissue in the center of bones that produces blood cells and platelets.	information related to the medical procedure that involves testing a sample bone marrow,the soft, sponge-like tissue in the center of bones that produces blood cells and platelets, for blast cells, immature (undifferentiated) cells occurring before the appearance of the definitive characteristics exhibited by fully differentiated cells.
58264	Marrow Cellularity (%)	the relative volume of hematopoietic cells in the bone marrow, expressed as a percentage of the total value of the marrow space (cells, fat, and other stromal elements).	information related to medical procedure that involves testing a sample bone marrow, the soft tissue filling the cavities of bones, for he degree, quality, or condition of cells that are present.
58266	Marrow Eosinophils (%)	bone marrow eosinophils, as a percentage of total nucleated marrow cells.	information related to the results of a medical procedure that involves testing a sample of bone marrow for eosinophils, granular leukocytes with a nucleus that usually has two lobes connected by a slender thread of chromatin and cytoplasm containing coarse, round granules that are uniform in size and stainable by eosin.
58270	Marrow Lymphocytes (%)	the percentage value of the medical procedure that involves testing a sample of bone marrow, the soft, sponge-like tissue in the center of bones that produces white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets, for lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell that has a number of roles in the immune system, including the production of antibodies and other substances that fight infection and diseases.	information related to the result of the medical procedure that involves testing a sample of bone marrow, the soft, sponge-like tissue in the center of bones that produces white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets, for lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell that has a number of roles in the immune system, including the production of antibodies and other substances that fight infection and diseases.
58271	Marrow Promyelocytes (%)	bone marrow promyeloctyes, as a percentage of toal nucleated marrow cells.	information related to the result of a medical procedure that involves testing a sample of bone marrow for promyelocytes, a cell of the bone marrow that is derived from myeloblasts and will give rise to myelocytes, precursors of myeloid cells and neutrophil granulocytes.
58282	Peripheral Blasts (%)	the value, in percent, of the medical procedure that involves testing a sample of blood for blast cells, immature (undifferentiated) cells.	information related to the result of the medical procedure that involves testing a sample of blood for blast cells, immature (undifferentiated) cells.
58301	Peripheral Monocytes (%)	the percentage of the medical procedure that involves testing a sample of blood for monocytes, large phagocytic mononuclear leukocytes produced in the vertebrate bone marrow and released into the blood.	information relating to the result of the medical procedure that involves testing a sample of blood for monocytes, large phagocytic mononuclear leukocytes produced in the vertebrate bone marrow and released into the blood.
58304	Peripheral Platelet Count	the absolute peripheral platelet count (in 1000/mcL).	information related to the result of a medical procedure that involves testing a sample of blood for platelets, irregular, disc-shaped fragments of large bone marrow cells called megakaryocytes in the blood that assist in blood clotting.
5	Vital Status	the survival state of the person registered on the protocol.	information related to a patient's vital status.
64507	Marrow Basophils (%)	the percentage of basophils (over total nucleated marrow cells) found in a bone marrow specimen.	information related to the result of a medical procedure that involves testing a sample of bone marrow for basophils, a type of granular leukocyte with granules that are easily stained by basic stains, to determine a diagnosis, plan treatment, check to see if treatment is working, or monitor the disease over time.
64521	Were FISH studies performed	the yes/no indicator that asks if fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) studies were performed.	information related to an evaluation using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) being performed.
64523	Total Number of Metaphases	a numeric value counting cell nuclei (organelles) captured in the second phase of mitosis as an outcome from a lab procedure to map chromosomes using fluorescent tags and detect abnormalities.	related to cell nuclei (organelles) seen in the second phase of mitosis as the outcome from a lab procedure to map chromosomes using fluorescent tags and detect abnormalities.
64527	Specific Abnormalities Detected by FISH	the field to describe cytogenetic abnormalities detected by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH).	a genetic abnormality at the chromosomal level.
64583	Source of Cells used for Analysis	the type of sample cells used for analysis for leukemia pathology.	information related to leukemia cell specimen description or source.
